   
Colourless green ideas sleep furiously
by C. M. Street
	
It can only be the thought of verdure to come, which prompts us in the autumn to buy these dormant white lumps of vegetable matter covered by a brown papery skin, and lovingly to plant them and care for them. 
It is a marvel to me that under this cover they are labouring unseen 
at such a rate within to give us the sudden awesome beauty of spring flowering bulbs. While winter reigns the earth reposes but these colourless green ideas sleep furiously.
  

  	
Coiled Alizarine
by John Hollander

Curiously deep, the slumber of crimson thoughts:
While breathless, in stodgy viridian
Colorless green ideas sleep furiously.

		 

And a few more
by https://linguistlist.org/issues/2/2-457/#2

Bert Peeters asked about translations of Chomsky's famous sentence "Colorless green ideas sleep furiously". While I don't have any translations, I do have the results of a competition held several years ago at Stanford: Date: Wed 30 Oct 85 23:02:50-PST 
  From: Paul Roberts <ROBERTSSU-SUSHI.ARPA> Subject: Colourless Green Ideas [Excerpted from the Stanford bboard by LawsSRI-AI.] For the Literary competition set on Christmas Eve you were asked to compose not more than 100 words of prose, or 14 lines of verse, in which a sentence described as grammatically acceptable but without meaning did, in the event, become meaningful. The sentence, devised by Noam Chomsky, was: colourless green ideas sleep furiously. [...] Competitors rose to this challenge good-humouredly and in force.... It can only be the thought of verdure to come, which prompts us in the autumn to buy these dormant white lumps of vegetable matter covered by a brown papery skin, and lovingly to plant them and care for them. It is a marvel to me that under this cover they are labouring unseen at such a rate within to give us the sudden awesome beauty of spring flowering bulbs. While winter reigns the earth reposes but these colourless green ideas sleep furiously. C. M. Street
 Behold the pent-up power of the winter tree; Leafless it stands, in lifeless slumber. Yet its very resting is revival and renewal: Inside the dark gnarled world of trunk and roots, Cradled in the chemistry of cell and sap, Colourless green ideas sleep furiously In deep and dedicated doormancy, Concentrating, conserving, constructing: Knowing, by some ancient quantum law Of chlorophyll and sun That come the sudden surge of spring, Dreams become reality, and ideas action. 
Bryan O. Wright Let us think on them, the Twelve Makers Of myths, trailblazing quakers Scourging earthshakers Colourless green ideas sleep furiously Before their chrysalides open curiously Anarchy burgeons spuriously Order raises new seedlings in the world By word and gun upheld The scarlet banner is unfurled The New Country appears Man loosens his fears The New Dawn nears Recollect our first fathers The good society in momentum gathers. ("recently discovered sonnet by Alexander Blok") translated by Edward Black [...] (and the winner:) (got 50 lbs.) Thus Adam's Eden-plot in far-off time: Colour-rampant fowers, trees a myriad green; Helped by God-bless'd wind and temp'rate clime. The path to primate knowledge unforseen, He sleeps in peace at eve with Eve. One apple later, he looks curiously At the gardens of dichromates, in whom colourless green ideas sleep furiously then rage for birth each morning, until doom Brings rainbows they at last perceive. D. A. H. Byatt 